444444444444444444444

Write a 1 to 1.5 page essay describing the ways computing technology effect social and economic between people.  
Explain how digital computing both disrupts and reinforces existing social relations.
Describe the possible role of digital computing in fighting poverty and supporting economic development.
Computers are arguably the most powerful tools that humanity has ever created. They have been used for great acts of creation, and great acts of destruction. We have used them to connect and share ideas with one another. They are the backbone of both a modernized economy and a modernized military. They have won wars, and made people richer than ever before. Computers are a fundamental part of our society, but not just as it is. They are also massive tools of social change. 
They spread messages faster than any one person ever could with any other method with the advent of the internet. They have changed our social order, they have influenced our culture... Computers are powerful things. And they can be used to create new social bonds, destroy existing social bonds, and open up opportunity to those in need like nothing ever could.
Computers are extremely influential when it comes to social ties. Computers have brought the world together socially, and I can talk with people from Brazil, Germany, and India in the same day. Social platforms like Facebook and Twitter have made anyone able to start a movement, found a cause, and make themselves heard. Governments have been swayed due to enough people speaking up, signing petitions, and making themselves heard. Friends can stay in contact from great distances, greater than mail could ever reach (without paying a stupid amount, that is). Digital computing reinforces the social order, because it allows us to talk to each other, share ideas, thoughts, and plans, and allows us to organize movements on a scale never before seen. 
However, people making themselves heard isn't necessarily a... good thing. Computing disrupts social ties as much as it does reinforce them. As our online interactions increase, our real interactions decrease. We've become antisocial by being digitally social. In addition, our online anonymity makes us much more vicious when we get into fights - we say behind a screen what we wouldn't dare to say in real life, and we do behind a screen what we wouldn't dare to do in real life. Computers and social contact also make people more distrusting, in my opinion. To know that at any moment, someone could be finding everything about them could make them more paranoid and hostile. Furthermore, not every movement organized online is necessarily a good movement. Terrorists, criminals, drug traders, all of these people also communicate and organize themselves through the internet. The social order is affected greatly, for better and for worse, with digital computing.
Computers also are tools of great economic power. In impoverished countries, cheap and readily available computers and internet access could help in the fight against poverty. Due to the ubiquity of the internet in this modern day, there is a massive amount of information online. Where there is information, there is education. Education does more than just fight poverty - it fights poverty's effects. With an educated populace, people can seek out jobs that require education, lifting people out of poverty on an individual scale. Craftsmen can sell their wares on a global market. Also, jobs can be created in and of themselves with technology like computing and the internet. Jobs like these are desperately needed because of the lack of industrialization that places like Africa felt. 
However, poverty is not measured by money. It is measured by the resources that a person can access. The internet, and by extension computing, can give people not just vocational information, but information about the world around them and health information - lack of cleanliness and health facilities is one of the biggest killers in poverty-stricken areas. In addition, knowledge of the world around them can help them prepare for events like extreme weather, which is very commmon in poor areas, perhaps a reason for its lack of industrialization.
In summary, digital computing can help fight poverty by keeping the poverty-stricken informed, training them for jobs, creating jobs, and allowing these countries to have their influence on the global marketplace.
In conclusion, the power of digital computing is a massive resource that can be channeled for good, as much as it can be channeled for bad. The social power of it, the power to spread knowledge, information, and ideology has fundamentally changed our social order and our world. The world has become completely connected thanks to the social power of the Internet. However, this power is not purely social - there is cold, hard cash to be made, and this cash can help a village in west Africa come out of poverty, employing its people and keeping them informed of local and international events, as well as providing them with the information to stay safe in the face of any outbreak or weather coming their way.
Every resource stands untapped, its use only determined by who access it. Let's let computing free, and let's let it change the world for the better.
